# Final Project Pitch 
After completing Assignment 3, my final project will expand on the work I did with that data set from Open Data DC and MPD. Considering President Donald Trump's portrayal of Washington, D.C., as a crime-filled city with a passive police force, looking into MPD’s policing practices in 2024 is relevant. The overall increase in police presence in D.C. over the past year, from the deployment of federal agents and an increase in Metro Transit Police Department officers, makes this topic timely.  

Last year, I reported on an audit from the Office of the DC Auditor that showed MPD was not enforcing its annual anti-bias trainings. In this final project, I will investigate the discrepancies in MPD use-of-force practices by analyzing data on the race of those against whom force is used, and the number of officers assigned to each ward compared to the number of use-of-force reports in those wards. Based on the data already collected, Wards 7 and 3 have the most use-of-force reports. I would also find use-of-force reports data from past years to compare to this year to see if there are any major differences, as Trump claims there was a spike in 2024, which led to the federalization of the city last summer. 

Beyond the data, experts to interview may include scholars in the criminal justice and law sector, as well as sources from MPD. I would also investigate what constitutes use-of-force and how that is taught to new and returning officers. In my previous reporting, I connected with DEI experts and anti-bias training advocates to learn about reform plans and solutions. This perspective would be included as well. 

